# November 4th 2022
Today was a decent-ish day. We've got some new stuff up and running!

## Geometry Shader fixing
I patched up the origins today. I was puzzled because only 0 and 2 worked, and nothing else.
This was easily fixed with some workarounds and debugging. Essentially, I learned that `glVertexAttribPointer`
is for floats, and floats only. There is 2 special ones, one for ints and one for longs. I didn't want to use longs
and the one for ints didn't work. Most likely because floats != ints, but I am not 100% sure.  
However in the end, I ended up feeding in floats into the Vertex Shader, which are then converted to ints before being
given to the Geometry Shader.

## Voxel generator, face defs and cars
I got tired of [the old test texture](../images/old_test.png), so I replaced it with [a picture of a car](../images/vroom.png). More specifically
a Fiat Multipla. It was really just me stealing a joke from a discord community I'm in. And after work and fixing of the transform
matrix calculations, I got a spinning car!  
[the car in action](../images/vroom_spin.gif)

After this hefty and brave move, I was ready to move on to making a cube!  
I initially just used a for loop and some tables to generate a test cube, which gave satisfactory results.
But this wouldn't scale well, sadly. So I made myself some more utility! Most notably, the `FaceFlags` class.
This is a basic class with one mission, to store an integer. This integer is a flag represented by a bit field.
It sadly doesn't use up all bits however, only 6 of them. But due to how Java works that is the best I could do and keep
explicit bit definitions. Which I really wanted.  

I could then use this class to give a voxel generator what faces to generate, and out it spat 0-6 quads, ready for usage.

## End note
Today's devlog was a bit bland if I say so myself. Luckily there are still 10 hours left of the day, so I might be able to 
do more work and a second devlog. We'll see.

But for now  

Cheers,  
&emsp;Jimmy