# November 24th 2022
So, I took a break from working a bit, and did some hefty reconsideration alongside implementing a ton of new stuff!

## No more geometry
I dumped geometry shaders. It was bulky, slow and hard to maintain. I exchanged it for normal tri meshes for now.  
I still kept large parts of the code used in the geometry shaders in the voxel generation however, so it wasn't for nothing!

## Rendering rules
Rendering is a hard part of the engine, luckily it often goes quite smooth once it is up and running.  
The old rendering system was very platform dependent and required splitting up a lot of stuff between server and client.  
The new system keeps the OpenGL code on the client and the interface on the server, and we'll simply skip running the client
rendering functions on the server.

I also made the interface more generic with more of a rendering API rather than direct calls to texture objects etc.
This new system means I can port the game to Vulkan, OpenGL ES or even SDL if I want to, only catch is the current windowing.

## Identifying
Moving everything to registries and using identifiers was a great idea. It is portable, and with the new mod system, it works
really nicely. It isn't optimal in speed however, and I need to find a balance. I don't have anything more to say here.

## Mods o' plenty
Mods are now a core part of the engine. All the games generation and blocks are registered as mods now. The new mod system
allows for loading external .jar files and reading in mod data from them. And thanks to the Identifier system mods can use
some code from each other without needing to reference each other's classes even!

## Wrapping Up
I also just began world generation and will get onto lighting sooner than later. I set up a new threading system too for
easy multithreading. It is currently being used to do the heavy tasks like rebuilding meshes, but hopefully for terrain etc
soon.