# October 30th 2022
So, welcome to these "devlogs".
Idea is that I will try to remember to write what I am doing and why.

I will mainly focus on technical stuff for others to perhaps learn from.

## Rewriting it all
As one may have noticed, you're not on the main branch of GitHub anymore.
At least if you're reading this on GitHub whilst this is still on the dev branch.

Basically, I decided to rewrite it all! That's why it is like this!  
No launcher, no world, barely anything! Basically I wasn't happy with the previous
codebase, and it was just bodge on top of bodge. That is why I rewrote the entire thing! Now with some new fancy ideas too!

## High speed quad rendering
So. With the new rewrite I wanted to avoid doing much on the CPU, since it already has a lot to do. So I thought to myself,
what takes up the most time to do? Which is(as always) chunk operations. Basically, it takes a LOT of work to regenerate a chunk mesh.  
This can(luckily) be sped up at least a bit by instead of using tris, we use rectangles. This might not speed it up at all,
but it is worth a shot. The idea is to skip heavy triangle lookups etc. and just feed in a position, size and direction of a face.  
This allows us to lower RAM usage by a ton, since we don't need to store up to ~36 vertices with 3 floats each and triangles and UVs and more and more,
just the position, size and orientation, ending up with a whopping 6 numbers. Per face. I also need to add UVs and lightning etc
but the idea is there.

The quads forward facing direction is going to be one of 6 ints, which I neatly "worked out" which face of a cube they represent
in the drawing below
![Text next to it say: Faces are aligmed as on the image, 1's right being 1, 0, 0 etc.
The image below is a cubemap of the faces you could say.
Hopefully this is sufficient for rendering quads.
To the left of the text there is an image of a cube with the 3 axis, X, Y and Z labelled, with a one on the front,
a 5 on the top and a 2 on the right side of the cube.
On the bottom there is a rolled out map of all the faces, with respective numbers.](../images/face-mappings.png "A picture of a cube with numbers")

Well, that is what I have for this one. Might make a second one later, we'll see! But for now

Cheers,  
&emsp;Jimmy